# Alistair Fink Personal Website V3
This is the 2nd iteration of a "made from scratch" website that I've made to showcase my portfolio and other professional experiences. (Repo name says v3 since there was a pseudo v1 that was really just me stealing some website template). The first iteration of this website was done completely front end and can be acessed at alistairfink.com/old. Since that was my first attempt at pretty much any UI design it looked absolutely terrible and had several problems. The first problem is obviously the UI design. It looked very dated and pretty terrible in every way but at least it was functional. The second problem was mostly from a developer point of view but it was maintainability. I started to find that it was a huge pain to maintain as I had to go into the front end code and figure out what I was doing when I made it then add what I need to add in. This was a collossal effort for me (relatively speaking) and after working Node APIs for my android app, Vidulum, I figured I could utilise that to make something better.

This website can be viewed at alistairfink.com. If you like my work let me know by sending me an e-mail. Currently, since I'm a student, I'm always looking for development internship opportunities. 

## Front End
Between using AngularJs on the previous iteration of my website to doing all the React Native stuff I've been doing recently I MUCH prever react's approach. So I figured this would be a good direction to proceed in for the front end of my website. After all at this point I'm pretty familiar with React and how to ustilise what React has to offer to do exactly what I want. 

## Back End
This is where the Node APIs come into play. The idea with these is to be a sort of "go between" to interact with my database and to send information to my front end. While most of the APIs are for getting data from my database and sending it to the front end there are also APIs to edit and add objects. These of course are protected by an API key (not the one in previous commits). This allows me to easily update my website without ever needing to log into my server or look at code. Unless I need to change the look of my front end all I need to do to update is to hop into post-man and send a few calls. This can even enable me in future to develop a admin console or a desktop application to do these calls, making this process even mroe user friendly. This in turn will allow me to distribute this back end to anyone that wants to create a website with low effort updating. All that they would need to do is to develop the front end which is relatively simple.

## Database
For my database I decided to go with MongoDB. I mostly chose this since it is what I will be using in my Vidulum app and future apps that I have ideas for. One other reason that I chose this is the simple fact that there is no complicated SQL or schemas involved. (Bad experiences with Oracle DBs). 
